# Tableau-Visualizing-Citi-Bike-Trips
Hands on Project using "Tableau Public" to import, filter, manipulate, and plot/visialuze data to publish various data visializations into a single dashboard as an end result. 

Tableau: Visualizing Citibike Trips
________________________________________

Task 1: Importing the Data

•	Importing the Citbike trips data (.csv) file into Tableau.
•	Changed the 'Gender' Measure to Dimension.


Task 2: Most Popular Start Stations

•	Plotted most popular end stations in the Citibike dataset on a symbol map.
•	Implemented the use of filters in Tableau.
•	First change made for this first plot was to change both Start Station latitude and longitude from measures to dimensions. This was done because when orginally plotted as averages (with measures), it plotted only one location the map. This means it was plotting the average location of the longitude and latitude. Instea dof this I wanted to look at individual plots, not the aggregated average plot as seen with the measures. 
•Next step was to apply a filter, so we could filter for the most popular start stations. Here I wanted to consider the most popular as having at least 5,000 or more rows. So in order to do this, I selected the " 201802-citibike-tripdata.csv " which was automatically generated by Tableau. This field counts the number of records in the table.  This was going to be how I filtered the plots to show the most popular end stations. 


•	Task 3: Most Popular End Stations

•	Next step was to plot the most popular end stations.
•	Same process as before, expect with end stations. 

Task 4: Average Trip Duration

•	How to change measures.
•	Looking at distribution of different dimensions.
•	Creating a graph for Usertype and Tripduration. Here I changed the measures SUM(Tripduration) to AVG(Tripduration) to get the average trip duration. 
•	Used gender dimension as a filter to look at the distribution of the average trip durations not only between user types but between genders as well. 
•	End result, you’ll be able to see the average trip duration between customers, suscribers, males, females and unidentified persons. 


Task 6: Distribution of Common End Stations on Popular Start Stations

•	Plotting start stations.
•	Using filters to limit start stations plot to most popular stations. This was measured by setting the filter criteria to  having at least 5,000 or more records of that Start Station Name.
•	Using filters to look at the distribution of most common end stations on the previously plotted popular start stations.
•	Start Station name, filtered by having at least 5,000 or more records of that Start Station Name. 


Task 7: Start and Stop Times

•	Looking at the distribution of number of trip starts for each hour of the day. 
•	Looking at the distribution of number of trip stops for each hour of the day.
•	Segmenting the plots for user types.

Task 8: Creating a Dashboard

•	Adding all sheets to create one dashboard.
•	Saving and publishing.

